# Automated 5G Network Deployment Using Ansible and Performance Analysis

The 5G network deployment benefits both the users and the operators, but it also comes with complications. The industry encounters enor-mous losses and a decrease in the speed and efficiency of the network due to these complexities. Automation in network deployments helps manage complexity and reduces workloads and the chances of human errors. Despite all these benefits of automation, the network functions must be monitored constantly. Monitoring the containers where the network functions are deployed helps them run better and avoid system outages. In case of any failure, the monitoring tool analyzes, detects, and provides the essential resources for system recovery. In this re-port, we are automating the deployment of 5G core network functions and User Equipment (UE) and Radio Access Network (RAN) using ansible-playbook code. After the automated ansible deployment of 5g network functions, this project stands out with further enhancement by integrating the deployed 5G network containers to be monitored by the Zabbix tool, which fetches every metric of the deployed containers and visualizes the graphs of the same on the frontend dashboard. The main proposition of using the Zabbix tool is to monitor the performance metrics of all the deployed containers. Lastly, this paper also discusses the future enhancements of implementing the Recovery Time Objective (RTO), the period of time and service level within which a 5g container must be restored following a disaster to avoid the negative consequences.
